deflation in real estate deflation is
coming everything is going to go down
you've heard that before right you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you we've been told that deflation
in real estate is just around the corner
we've seen some of it in some places
there's no question how about rents
though well if you look at it back in
history there's only one instance of
rents coming down and it was just a
small amount so what does that tell us
for the future right here right now
we're going to cover that I'm going to
tell you what's happening inside of the
real estate industry going from
commercial real estate to residential
obviously you do know that mortgage
rates are still very high though we have
come off the top why is this the case
while the Federal Reserve after keeping
interest rates super low for super long
decided to increase them in order to
stop inflation from getting out of hand
and although it has gotten out of hand
they feel that this is enough and
they're not necessarily likely to
increase interest rates anymore from
this point on and so for the vast
majority of people they have to deal
with the current rate of inflation and
then the additional inflation that will
be applied each and every year from here
and Beyond we've been told there's
deflation but where is it let's begin
here it
is looking at the roughly 82% of
respondents in a Credit Karma survey
conducted uh by the Harris poll say that
the country is grappling with an
unprecedented housing affordability
crisis another three and five who've
never bought a home don't think that
they will ever be able to do so the
dream of home ownership is long gone you
increasing interest rates and mortgage
rates and so on well what has happened
here there's no question about this is
that the United States States as well as
Canada UK and other places will become
if they're not already will become
renter Nations it doesn't mean
everybody's going to rent but you're
going to see a lot of um real estate
that is sort of mixed use where you have
a big tall condominium on the bottom you
have the retail space then you might
have you know some offices and so on you
know one or two floors in there and then
you have a big retail EST or big
residential establishment on top of that
and that's generally the way things are
moving you pack them in densely so you
have live work and play all within a
very small 15minute City how does that
sound well this is what's happening
right here and now it's becoming
prohibitively expensive to own a home
because if you're going to pay let's
just say $3,000 a month on rent and
$3,000 a month on a mortgage you might
say well I'd rather own a home yes but
you also have to have a million dollar
on your down payment or 500,000 on your
down payment depending on where you're
living you can't get by on you know what
we used to see people would be paying
you know $100,000 down and I can afford
a home that doesn't happen anymore you
you can't save right now if you've got
nothing or very little there's no doubt
though you can't save up to the point
where you can afford a down payment you
can afford first and last month's rent
though and so that's what's happening
but there are some beautiful places out
there that offer you everything people
could want a big pool beautiful grounds
that are manicured they've got security
they've got everything so it's not
necessarily a bad thing now at the same
time the younger generation many of them
have said I don't even want to own a
home I don't want the responsibility I
want to live in a pod have you seen
those my goodness they don't want any of
that and so look if that's what they
want that's fine they don't want to own
a car they don't want to be able to
drive the delay there's a delay right
now in people getting their license
young people don't have a desire to do
what those in the previous generation
did so we can see the change in habit
the change in attitudes that are clearly
present you could blame it on Tik Tok
you could blame it on anything but
that's what's happening okay so when we
know that that changes the course
of the economy so keep that in mind okay
here we have the average fixed mortgage
holder in Canada is still only paying
2.5
2.85% now the market rates currently are
at
5.35% and actually in a lot of cases
it's more than that okay so the problems
right now in Canada this applies to
other
places is not even there yet so what
they're saying is no you got to cut
interest rates you got to cut them now
you got to get those mortgage rates down
hurry up hurry up hurry up there's just
one problem it's that if they bring it
down you are going to see additional
inflation and that is of course my
thesis falling rent is extremely rare
and yet economists keep expecting that
that's the wild thing I mean I hear this
all the
time and it's just unfounded why do we
keep hearing about falling rent why do
we keep hearing about falling prices in
general anything any prices of anything
when you rarely see deflationary events
rarely I've talked about a collapse but
know that when I talk about collapse
that's not down in you most case yeah
you can you can have a deflationary
event but the result of that is is up
but not in a positive way it's not a
nice smooth like what I would say I
wouldn't call it inflation if it was a
nice healthy stair step up in asset
prices it's not like that it's crashed
down it's crashed up it's
excessive this is not healthy that's
what you get when you create this
Central Bank policies and it makes me
upset but I'm going to keep my calm
right here okay falling rent is
extremely rare right look look at the
data like this is the chart this is from
Mish talk and I I I want to show you
this because housing units completed
versus a percentage change in rent
and while we have seen um you know a dip
once before yeah that's for many
different reasons um but it was just
shock and awe during that period of time
right big time but what happened with
the price nothing really when you think
about it so the same
scenario could be expected many times
over that rents could go flat for two
years they could go flat
but in the end where does it where does
it end up it ends up higher it ends up
higher and that's the crazy part is that
you have people who can afford first and
last month's rent maybe but they can't
afford that down payment if think about
this this the crazy part we keep hearing
about the Airbnb and all this that yeah
that's going to create this huge glut of
inventory maybe we'll
see but let's be honest here if prices
of real estate came down by
50% from today's prices by many metrics
it is unaffordable now that to me is
wild do you expect real estate to Crash
by 50% or more and I'm talking about
nationally I'm talking about in wherever
your country is do you expect the prices
to come down by 50% in the major cities
in the United States and the major
cities of Canada and so on
if you do or do not please put that in
the comments below let's see let's let's
compare that you're going to look
through the comments you're going to
compare you're going to comment on those
comments we'll thumbs up we'll all be in
this one okay let me know because it
would be very unusual historically to
see that happen and if it does it's
still unaffordable I mean that's the
bubble that we are in I'm not saying
it's not a bubble it is a huge bubble
it's crazy
and by the way yeah this is just
examples of the re Real Estate
Investment Trust both of them are
suspending their distributions yeah we
can't deal with this right now we got
some problems uh yeah okay why because
the way a real estate investment trust
works is that they have to constantly be
paying out constantly whereas you'll
have some others that will lock you in
okay if you deal with a syndicator the
syndicator will basically say when I
think it's right I'm going to sell and
you get the proceeds during that period
of time you might get your distributions
right um but at the end of the day I'm
the one who decides when to sell for
Real Estate Investment Trust they're
constantly just selling properties
buying property selling properties
constantly they get a flush of cash they
go out and buy a property is it the
right time to buy maybe not but they're
going to still buy a property anyway oh
they need cash okay we're going to sell
a property is it the right time to buy
it's not they're going to sell it anyway
that's the problem with these real
estate investment trusts so yeah they
can get you a you know a good return
sometimes but also they can get you a
terrible return as well as the fact that
you don't know when you're going to get
or not get your distributions when times
are tough okay so be careful on Real
Estate Investment Trust a lot of people
and if you read money Master the game by
Tony Robbins he gets into um talking
about the retirement accounts old age
homes that the real estate investment
trusts uh they get into look you got to
read that book but uh I think I might
might have that in the link in the
description under my favorite books but
anyway um that is the one that I think
is for people to you know understand
like where are we headed here where a
lot of people are going to need those
Services as they move from the Baby
Boomers move into the old age homes that
could be something for a period of time
that becomes very attractive check that
out okay this right here is just showing
us when we look at Commercial Real
Estate commercial real estate has
suffered much more than residential real
estate and that's what these charts
depict right here okay in terms of
prices in terms of development and so
many ways and obviously with office real
estate out of office Global office space
vacancies are at a record high crazy
right and this goes globally you can see
that there's no question about it but in
in places where there's just too much to
begin with of course you're going to
suffer as a result okay California
landlord strugg struggle to make ends
meet after the eviction moratorium ends
it's been going on for a while landlords
are taking a beating and these are
smalltime landlords okay we should be
supporting in many cases the smalltime
landlords so that Blackstone doesn't buy
them all up okay that's not what we want
we want the smalltime landlords
hopefully that they are not bad
landlords real estate industry trembles
over commissions on home sales though
this is one I've got friends that are
real estate agents and uh this will hurt
if their percentages come down for them
but at the same time what maybe they
want is like hey I don't want to be
spending a hundred grand on on some
commission I don't want to be spending
50 Grand on a commission uh you know for
the home when they've done like theirs
is a percentage basis and it gets gets
crazy and of course suddenly you don't
want to move because of the closing
costs associated with it right okay look
if you need some assistance you need a
cfp you need a fiducia you need somebody
to sit there and help you well that's
why I linked up with money pickle okay
money pickle gets you out of that pickle
that's the idea behind the name and what
you got to do is connect with them you
get a free 45 minute call with them
where they are told they have to help
you if not you tell me okay and I will
have a talk with them personally okay
that was the rule that I set up when I
agreed to partner with them I said there
cannot be a sales pitch okay that is not
what this call is about this call is
about helping people they said yes
absolutely Ely so you give me feedback
and by the way the feedback I've
received so far has all been positive I
want you to check this out don't
procrastinate get on there you click in
it you go make um a um an appointment
with them right on the page it's right
there click the link in the description
and you'll see it for yourself now I
want to get to the comment of the day I
love comment of the day every
day I don't know one person who still
has their money in the bank if you do
good luck and that's the circumstance
with a lot of people they're taking
their money out of the banks and they're
parking it in other places and I want to
know are you part of that circumstance
dealing with this you're you're saying
you know what I don't trust that bank
I'm going to put it in a money market
fund I'm going to put it in a stock
market or maybe I'm going to put it
under the mattress what's the case right
I don't need to know what you're doing
I'm just wondering are you those people
who have said the banks they're not safe
I want to know what you're thinking if
you're around here still here hit that
thumbs up if you haven't already when
you do so you are telling the algorithm
hey check this guy out so I appreciate
when you do that and of course tune in
tomorrow because I've got some really
good information you don't want to miss
take care see you then